---
title: Goals for 2017: Intelligence, Creativity, Exploration
teaser: Looking toward the new year, establishing some goals to help focus my
  time to become more Intelligent, Creative, and Exploratory.
tags: life
---

2016 was a big year for me. I lived in a new, very different city for over a
year (San Francisco), made a ton of new friends, strengthened friendships across
coasts, moved in with an amazing girl (and she still actually likes me), ran a
50K (32mi ish, a distance I never thought I'd run a few years ago), and finally
joined [TechShop]. This has been one of my favorite and happiest years ever so I
want to keep this momentum going in 2017 and accelerate into 2018, which not
totally unrelated, will be the year I turn 30.

I've been doing a lot of thinking about this in the past few months and I'm
going to focus on three main areas in 2017: Intelligence, Creativity, and
Exploration.

## Intelligence

If you read closely to my introduction, you may notice none of the
accomplishments I mentioned have anything to do with my career, so one of my
biggest goals will be learn new things that will open up new career paths for
me.

### #Science

From a young age, I've been interested in science. My grandfather, uncle, and
father were all engineers and/or computer programmers so I've followed in their
footsteps, Electrical Engineer by college degree and programmer by current
trade. This new year, I want to explore new programming languages and improve my
skills in the ones I love. [Haskell] and [functional programming] in general
will take front seat. Also, I want to learn [Python] since most of the science
community has adopted it as their [main tool]. I want apply these to new
concepts as well, like [machine learning], [probabilistic programming], and
[data science] which are all really hot now and have been for some time.

I haven't used my Electrical Engineering degree since graduation but do find a
small side project to get into every year. This year, I'd like to explore more
artistic creations. Combining light and color with environment sensor input
could make for some really neat interactive art and has been something I've
thought of for a long time now. Time to get after it!

[Haskell]: https://www.haskell.org
[functional programming]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_programming
[Python]: https://www.python.org
[main tool]: https://www.scipy.org
[machine learning]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning
[probabilistic programming]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Probabilistic_programming_language
[data science]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_science

### Basic Stuff

Beyond my career, I'm going to get better at that basic human stuff too. Doing a
better job at keeping up with current events including reading more fact-based
news and maybe even a bit of partisan-based news to understand other people's
views. Getting better at managing my finances is something I've been doing but
could still use a bit of work. Finally, I'm going to write more for my blog or
other blogs to improve my typing and writing ability (this is actually my first
blog post that isn't for my company).

OK, OK. Enough of the boring stuff. Onto the things I'm looking forward to the
most.

## Creativity

I joined a co-op, maker space called [TechShop] 4 months ago and I've loved
every moment of being there, creating sunglasses holders, a trunk, laser art, NP
stencils, cutting boards, and holiday cards. To continue my passion, I bought
myself a year membership with 6 months of unlimited safety courses (needed to
use the machinery) and I'm most excited to get into metal working, welding,
water cutting, CNC-ing, 3D printing, and screen printing. With access to all
these great machines, I'll be creating some awesome things. I've been slacking
with posting my creations to Instagram so I'm setting a focus to take pictures
and post all the cool stuff that comes out of this!

[TechShop]: http://www.techshop.ws

## Exploration

2016 saw my limits pushed with my first race longer than a half marathon and my
first ultra marathon (30K and 50K). I loved every moment of these races and want
to keep pushing my limits. I don't think I'll tackle anything longer than a 50K
this year, but I do want to break a 3 hour 30K and a 6:30 50K (although, I would
really love to break 6 hours too). Also, it's been awhile since I've run
anything short distance so I'm going to try and break my 5K PR as well (21:40).

With the recent move to SF, I didn't travel much this past year, but I love
traveling and want to visit some new places in 2017. When I travel to cities
that have [November Project] tribes, I make it a point to be at the workouts.
I've visited 14 tribes so far and my goal for the new year is to visit 3-5 new
tribes! Currently on my bucket list: Seattle, Vancouver, Victoria, and Portland
(been there but didn't visit the tribe).

[November Project]: http://november-project.com

Finally, my last goal for 2017 ... run a beer mile! I've been feeling the FOMO
with everyone and their grandma posting about their beer mile fun times, but I
seem to keep missing them so 2017 is the year!

If any of these goals resonate with you, contact me! I would love to have a
buddy to keep me accountable. Together, let's make 2017 awesome!
